
HAVERHILL AND DISTRICT TWIN TOWNS ASSOCIATION
THE CONSTITUTION
(January 2014)
1  NAME
The name of this organisation shall be the ‘Haverhill & District Twin Towns Association’ (hereafter referred to as ‘the
Association’).
2  OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Association are specified in the Twin Town Charters.
3  MEMBERSHIP
Membership of the Association shall be open to any individual or group resident in Haverhill or its surrounding district,
as designated below and subject to payment of the subscription determined by the Association at its Annual General Meeting. All
members shall be issued with a copy of this constitution.
Categories:
a)  Individual Membership
b)  Family Membership
This covers parent(s)/guardian(s) and children under the age of 18 years, living at the same address.
c)  Honorary Life Membership
The Executive Committee shall have the power to grant Honorary Life Membership to a member who has provided the
Association with exceptional service.
d)  Honorary Annual Membership
The Executive Committee shall have the power to grant Honorary Annual Membership to any person from Pont St Esprit or
Ehringshausen or their locality, who is temporarily resident in Haverhill or its locality for a period of not more than 12 months.
Cessation of Membership
The membership of any person or group may be terminated by the Executive Committee on being satisfied that the conduct of that
person is at variance with the objectives and policies of the Association as set out in clause 2. The person or group concerned
shall, after reasonable notice, be given an opportunity to appear before the Executive Committee to state their case. The decision
of the Executive Committee may be appealed to a General Meeting of the Association.
4  MEETINGS
a)  Annual General Meeting
An Annual General meeting of the Association shall be held each year before the 31 st March. The Secretary shall convene the
meeting, in writing, at least 28 days before the date it is due. Nominations for the officers of the Association and any proposals,
other business or Constitutional Amendments to be put to the Annual General Meeting must be received by the Secretary no later
than 21 days before the meeting date. The Secretary shall then circulate all members in writing with proposals, items of other
business, Constitutional Amendments and nominations no later than 14 days before the meeting date. In the case of contested
elections, voting shall be by a show of hands. A simple majority shall decide. Members in good standing, unable to attend the
meeting, may exercise a postal vote, which must be received by the Secretary before the start of the meeting. This option shall not
apply to proposals, other business or amendments to be voted upon. In the absence of sufficient nominations to fill the vacancy
for officers and/or Executive Committee members before the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman at the meeting may accept
nominations, duly seconded. The Annual General Meeting shall determine the level of subscription for membership of the
Association to take effect at the commencement of the Association’s next Financial Year on the first day of January.
b)  Extraordinary General Meetings
An Extraordinary General Meeting shall be convened by the Secretary on a written request being received from at least 10
members in good standing of the Association for a clearly specified purpose. The Secretary shall convene the meeting, in writing,
stating its purpose, at least 14 days before it is due.
At General Meetings those eligible to vote shall be fully paid up members of the Association at the time of the meeting and
subject to the following voting rights:
Individual Membership: 1 vote per member
Family Membership: 2 votes, which may be cast by any 2 family members
Honorary Life Membership: 1 vote per member
Honorary Annual Membership: Ineligible to vote.
One sixth of those eligible to vote shall constitute a quorum. The Chairman shall have the casting vote.
c)  Executive Committee Meetings
The Executive Committee shall meet at least 6 times per year and 6 members, at least 2 of whom shall be elected officers, shall
constitute a quorum. The Chairman shall have a casting vote.
Page 1 of 2

5  GOVERNING BODY AND OFFICERS
a)  The Officers of the Association
The elected officers of the Association shall be a Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer, all of whom shall be elected at the Annual
General Meeting.
b)  Term of Office
The term of office of elected officers and members of the Executive Committee shall be from one Annual General Meeting to the
next.
c)  Vacancies
The Committee shall have power to co-opt members of the Association to fill any vacancy or vacancies left after an Annual
General Meeting in respect of Officers or members of the Committee. This power may be exercised at any time before the
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The Committee shall have no further power to co-opt but may invite any person, whether
member of the Association or not, to attend specific Committee meetings. With the leave of the Chairman of the meeting, such
person may address the meeting and take part in discussion but shall have no vote. If any officer or Executive Committee
Member resigns or ceases to be a member of the Association, the Executive Committee may appoint a suitably qualified member
to fill the vacancy for the unexpired portion of the term of office by a simple majority of those present and voting.
d)  The Executive Committee
The Annual General Meeting of the Association shall elect officers who shall be ex-officio members of the Executive Committee.
It shall also elect no more than 10 ordinary Executive Committee members. The Association delegates to the Executive
Committee powers to discharge the day to day business of the Association. The Executive Committee may form sub-committees
and working parties as it deems appropriate to which it may co-opt additional people with relevant expertise. The Executive
Committee shall exercise general control over all officers, sub-committees and working parties of the Association. The Executive
Committee shall lay down the objectives and any delegated powers of any sub-committee or working party it establishes and such
subordinate body shall report to the Executive Committee at its next meeting, thereafter.
6  FINANCE
The Financial Year of the Association shall be from the first day of January to the last day of December. The Treasurer shall
collect all money due to the Association and lodge it intact to the credit of the banking account specified by the Executive
Committee. The Treasurer may hold a Petty Cash Account, the maximum value of which shall be determined from time to time
by the Executive Committee. Payments made by cheque to a value of £250.00 may be signed by the Treasurer. Any payments by
cheque of a value greater than £250.00 shall be signed by 2 elected officers of the Association. The authorised signatories are
Treasurer, Chairman and Secretary of the Association. The Treasurer shall prepare a Statement of Accounts annually, as at the
end of December. An independent examination of the accounts and records shall be made by a suitably qualified person
appointed by the Association Treasurer with the approval of the Executive Committee. The Statement of Accounts as presented to
the Association in General Meeting are to bear a signed certificate stating the findings of the Examiner.
7  THE CONSTITUTION
a)  Compliance
Every member, on joining the Association, accepts the principles and objectives laid down in this agreement and agrees to be
bound by the Constitution of the Association.
b)  Amendments
Amendments to this Constitution can only be made at a General Meeting of the Association. Any amendment, to be effective,
must be agreed by at least two thirds of the members present. No amendment shall be discussed or voted upon unless notice has
been given to members in writing at least 14 days before the General Meeting.
8  DISSOLUTION OF THE ASSOCIATION
The Association may be dissolved by an Extraordinary General Meeting, duly convened for that purpose and of which at least 28
days’ notice in writing has been given to members PROVIDED that, on a motion to that effect, being duly moved and seconded, it
shall be passed by the votes of not less than two thirds of the members present. Such meeting shall also consider and agree the
settlement of any outstanding debts, disbursements of any residual monetary funds and disposal of any assets.
Page 2 of 2
